#summary How to build and run PARTAKE.

= Introduction =

This page describes how to build PARTAKE on eclipse and run on Tomcat 6.

= Details =
== Checkout and build PARTAKE ==
We use eclipse 3.6 (Java EE platform) with [http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/sites/m2e m2eclipse] plugin.
  # checkout PARTAKE from http://code.google.com/p/partakein/source/checkout 
    * "http://partakein.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Partake" is project's root dir.
  # On eclipse, select File -> New -> Dynamic Web Project. Set Project name as you like (we recommend to use "Partake"), and set Project location where you saved the file. Then press Next >.
    * set Target runtime to Apache Tomcat v6.0
    * set Dynamic web module version to 2.5
  # Now we are on "build path" page, set "Default output folder" as "target/classes". Then press Next >.http://partake-stat.appspot.com/wiki/outputDir.png
  # set "Context root" as "/", set "Content directory" as "src/main/webapp", and uncheck "Generate web.xml deployment descriptor". Then press Finish. http://partake-stat.appspot.com/wiki/webmodule.png
  # If you are using Windows, do not forget to set project encoding to utf-8.
  # right click on Partake project, and choose Maven -> enable project management.
  # right click on Partake project, and choose Maven -> update project configuration. This may take a minute.
  # *On Markers pane, you may see Classpath Dependency Validator Message.*
     * *In this case, right click it and select Quick fix, and press Finish. This will fix the problem.*
     * This is important. If you forget to do this, you will see ClassNotFoundException.
  # If you can't build your project. Check the build path again.
    * We recommend to use JDK1.6 for Partake.
    * set "Default output folder:" to "{PROJECT_NAME}/target/classes".
    * src/main/java, src/main/resources, src/test/java, and src/test/resources should be included. http://partake-stat.appspot.com/wiki/buildPath.png
  # Then choose Run on Server. Since you have not configure PARTAKE, you will see an error message.

== setup Database ==

  When running PARTAKE, you can choose either Cassandra 0.6 or RDB as database. You should do either of these.
  However, currently only RDB will work well. Cassandra 0.6 might not work.

=== setup Cassandra ===

  # Download Apache Cassandra (0.6.5) and run on localhost. Maybe you have to set up data and index directories.
    * Cassandra use 8080 for JMX by default. This conflicts with tomcat's default port. So the port described in cassandra's launching script (e.g. conf/cassandra.sh.in) should be changed. We recommend to use port 8081 or something like that for JMX.
    * configure conf/storage-conf.xml to use OrderPreservingPartitioner. Find the line containing {{{ <Partitioner>org.apache.cassandra.dht.RandomPartitioner</Partitioner> }}} and change it to {{{ <Partitioner>org.apache.cassandra.dht.OrderPreservingPartitioner</Partitioner> }}}.

=== setup RDB ===

  Currently only PostgreSQL is tested, however PARTAKE should work with any other RDBs that is supported by OpenJPA (e.g. MySQL, DB2 and ORACLE).

  # Install your preferred RDB.
  # create a database having name 'partake'

== edit properties files ==
  # fill src/main/resource/sample.partake.properties (especially bitly)
    * a partake.properties file has in.partake.mode property. The value of this property is called "mode".
    * partake will read {mode}.partake.properties.
  # rename src/main/resource/twitter4j.properties.sample as src/main/resource/twitter4j.properties.
    * set your project name consumer key and consumer secret given from twitter.
  # set "in.partake.database.daofacotry" and "in.partake.database.pool" properly.
    * If you have chosen to use Cassandra, set them like the following.
{{{
in.partake.database.daofactory=in.partake.model.dao.cassandra.CassandraDAOFactory
in.partake.database.pool=in.partake.model.dao.cassandra.CassandraConnectionPool
}}}
    * If you have chosen to use RDB, set them like the following.
{{{
in.partake.database.daofactory=in.partake.model.dao.jpa.JPADAOFactory
in.partake.database.pool=in.partake.model.dao.jpa.JPAConnectionPool
}}}
      * Also, you have to setup "persistence.xml" properly.
      * Especially, set the driver name, username, and password in ConnectionProperties like the following.
{{{
<property name="openjpa.ConnectionProperties" value="DriverClassName=org.postgresql.Driver,Url=jdbc:postgresql:partake,Username=partake,Password=partake"/>
}}}  

== edit server.xml ==
You should add URIEncoding and useBodyEncodingForURI in your Connector.
{{{
    <Connector port="8009" protocol="AJP/1.3" redirectPort="8443"
      		   URIEncoding="UTF-8" useBodyEncodingForURI="true" />
}}}

If you are just testing PARTAKE, 8080 port may help you. Do not forget to add URIEncoding and useBodyEncodingForURI in the Connector.
{{{
    <Connector connectionTimeout="20000" port="8080" protocol="HTTP/1.1" redirectPort="8443"
    		   URIEncoding="UTF-8" useBodyEncodingForURI="true"
    />
}}}

And probably you should set mod_ajp in your Apache HTTP server.

== Register your application ==
Do not forget to register your application to the twitter.
    * http://twitter.com/apps/new
    * Application Type should be "Browser"
    * Callback URL is any valid URL. But do not use localhost. This will rejected by twitter.
    * Default Access Type should be "Read & Write".
        * We don't need DirectMessage Read.
    * Check "Yes, use Twitter for login"

Also, please register your application to bit.ly. Without this, PARTAKE will work. but shows error messages in console.

== DONE! ==

Then PARTAKE should run now. If you have any difficulties, please tell @partakein or @mayahjp.


== NOTE ==

When you failed eclipse operations, web.xml may be rewritten. In this case, please revert web.xml.

== FOR RELEASE PACKAGING ==

We can use eclipse or console to make the release package.

In console, just type
{{{
$ mvn war:war
}}}

If you are using JPA instead of Cassandra, just type
{{{
$ mvn openjpa:enhance
$ mvn war:war
}}}